.TH DOWNLOAD 1
.SH NAME
download \- load program into LSI\-11
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B download
[ file ] ...
[ option ] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Download
loads an absolute binary program image (\s-2PDP\-11\s0 a.out format)
into the memory of an \s-2LSI-11\s0 computer over an ethernet or
an asynchronous line.
After halting the \s-2LSI-11\s0 with a break,
.I download
either places a bootstrap in memory, and uses it to
load the remainder of memory, or jumps to the resident portion of the 
downloader.
.PP
Loading the object program takes time proportional to the size
of the program itself.
In two seconds, download will load about 56K bytes over the ethernet, or 1000
bytes over a serial line.
.PP
.I Download
will normally leave the \s-2LSI 11\s0 in ODT.
The
.I -a
option requests
.I download
to auto-start the micro.
The optional number \f2N\f1 following
.I -a,
forces a delay of approximately \f2N\f1 seconds before execution,
allowing the user to reconnect the console port before output begins.
.PP
The serial-loader bootstrap program is loaded 100 words beyond the end of the
user's object program.
If there is insufficient memory for the bootstrap and stack,
this program will fail.
The ethernet downloader stores it's LSI-resident portion in real page 7,
beyond normal object programs (virtual page 7 is used for memory-mapped I/O).
.PP
.I Download
loads the user's program as specified in the command line.
If no program name is given,
.I a.out
is used.
.PP
Options are:
.TP
.BI \-v
Verbose.
Print details of the communications with the \s-2LSI-11/2\s0.
.TP
.B \-s
Silent.
Print no information messages (default is to print some messages).
.TP
.BI \-a "[N]"
Autostart.
After loading, start the user's program running in the \s-2LSI-11\s0.
Optionally delay
.I N
seconds.
.TP
.BI \-lx
Use LSI number
.I x
as the LSI 11 for downloading.
If this option is not specified, download selects the \s-2LSI-11\s0
that the user has on reserve, or a free one if none is reserved.
E.g., \-l9.
.TP
.BI \-d " f"
Use file
.I f
as the downloader program (download will exec it, after parsing arguments).
.TP
.BI \-cL
Use LSI in class L (as specified in the
.I machines
database).
.TP
.BI \-BX
Use Baudrate
.I X
in communicating with the LSI console.
.TP
.BI \-h
Hold the LSI, so multiple machines may be allocated to one user.
.TP
.BI \-e
Reload the resident portion of the ethernet downloader (into a page beyond
real page 7).
.SH FILES
.ta 1.6i
/dev/LSI.i	LSI 11 device connections, as specified in machines database
.br
/tmp/xinu/LSI-*	Lock files for auto-select
.br
{Xinu-directory}/lib/machines	the database of available machines
.br
{Xinu-directory}/lib/sdl.boot.lsi	\s-2LSI 11\s0 part of serial bootstrap
.br
{Xinu-directory}/lib/sdl.lsi	serial downloader for \s-2LSI 11\s0
.br
{Xinu-directory}/lib/edl.lsi	ethernet downloader for \s-2LSI 11\s0
.br
{Xinu-directory}/lib/eload.lsi	\s-2LSI 11\s0 resident portion of ethernet downloader
.br
Note: files for other machines have ``lsi'' replaced by the machine type.
