.TH ODT 1
.SH NAME
odt \- connect user's terminal to a micro console (odt) line
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B odt
[ option ] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Odt
connects a terminal on the VAX to a microcomputer tty line so the output
of the micro appears on the terminal screen and characters typed at the
keyboard are sent to the micro.
\f2Odt\f1 sets the micro tty line to raw mode, and the VAX terminal to
cbreak mode.
The connection can be broken by killing the odt process (e.g., by
typing the interrupt character (e.g., CONTROL-C).
.PP
When \f2odt\f1 receives a backslash from the terminal,
it switches to raw mode to read
one character, after which it switches back to cbreak mode.
The backslash escape allows the user to send characters like CONTROL-C
to the micro even though they are normally interpreted as signals.
As a special case, an escaped null character (octal 0) causes \f2odt\f1
to force the micro line into a break condition for 1 second.
This is useful for trapping an \s-2LSI 11\s0 into ODT mode.
.PP
Options are:
.TP
.BI \-lx
Connect to machine number
.I x.
If this option is not specified, download selects the \s-2LSI-11\s0
that the user has on reserve, or a free one if none is reserved.
E.g., \-l9.
.TP
.BI \-cL
Use LSI in class L (as specified in the
.I machines
database).
.TP
.BI \-BX
Use Baudrate
.I X
in communicating with the LSI console.
.TP
.BI \-h
Hold the LSI, so multiple machines may be allocated to one user.
.TP
.BI \-T[x]
Release LSI after 
.I x
minutes of idle time.  If no value for
.I x
is listed, the LSI will be held indefinitely.
The default timeout value is set in the
.I machines
database.
.TP
.BI \-f
Turn off X-ON X-OFF flow control.  Flow control is on by default.
.SH FILES
.ta 1i
/dev/LSI.i	default \s-2LSI 11\s0 connection (as specified by
.I Xinu-directory/lib/machines)
.br
/tmp/xinu/LSI-*	Lock files
