.TH UPLOAD 1
.SH NAME
upload \- copy \s-2LSI 11\s0 memory to \s-2VAX\s0
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B upload
[ options ] ...
[ [ min addr ] max addr ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Upload
copies the contents of an \s-2LSI 11\s0 memory onto a file on the \s-2VAX\s0.
By default the image is placed in file core11.
.PP
Arguments
\f2min addr\f1
and
\f2max addr\f1
limit the image to specific addresses.
.PP
Options include the following:
.TP
.BI \-o
Output file.
Take the next argument as an output file name in place of \f2core11\f1.
.TP
.BI \-v
Verbose. Print the details of communications between the \s-2LSI 11\s0 and
the host.
.TP
.BI \-s
Silent. Print no information messages.
.TP
.BI \-n
Noload.  Assume the uploader code is already resident in the \s-2LSI 11\s0.
.TP
.BI \-lx
\s-2LSI\s0 number.  Use \s-2LSI\s0 number
.I x
for uploading.
If this option is not specified, \f2upload\f1 selects the \s-2LSI 11\s0 that
the user has reserved.
.TP
.BI \-a
a.out file.
Take the next argument as the name of the object file in place of
a.out.
.TP
.BI \-cL
Use LSI in class
.I L.
.SH FILES
.ta 1.7i
/dev/\s-2LSI\s0.i	\s-2LSI 11\s0 device connections
.br
/tmp/xinu/\s-2LSI\s0-*	Lock files for auto-select
.br
{Xinu-directory}/lib/machines	database listing parameters for all machines
.br
{Xinu-directory}/lib/sul.boot.lsi	\s-2LSI 11\s0 part of serial bootstrap
.br
{Xinu-directory}/lib/sul.lsi	serial uploader for \s-2LSI 11\s0
.br
(Xinu-directory}/lib/eul.lsi	ethernet uplooader for \s-2LSI 11\s0
.br
Note: files for other machines have ``lsi'' replaced by the machine type.
.SH BUGS
\f2Upload\f1 reads the contents of some memory locations with ODT
and then overwrites them with a bootstrap program; if aborted,
it cannot be restarted because data has been lost.
